/*  File:    algorithm help
    Purpose: Explain, give help about, GARP algorithm option switches
    Author:  Floris Linnebank & Bert Bredeweg
    Date:    September 2004

    Copyright (c) 2004, University of Amsterdam. All rights reserved.

*/



GARP can use different algorithms in several procedures, this help contains a
user guide as well as descriptions of all different settings.

            ---------------------------------
            setting algorithm option switches
            ---------------------------------

Algorithm assumptions can be changed in the garp shell using the 'am' command.
This presents a toggle menu. On loading, GARP default settings are used.
These can be brought back using the 'da' command.

Because a model might be constructed depending on specific settings a mechanism
for setting model specific defaults is included.
In the isa file or the rules file, lines can be added specifying the assumption
and it's needed value in the following format:

algorithm_option_switch( ASSUMPTIONNAME, ON/OFF).

e.g.

algorithm_option_switch( cw_assumption, off ).

This would turn the closed world assumption in influence resolution off.

Please note that if such statements are present they override the default
settings whenever these are loaded. In other words, using 'da' will reload
defaults with overrides.

For advanced users: in grprefs.pl (garp/program_files/) the default settings
are defined and can be changed.

            --------------------------
            algorithm options switches
            --------------------------

A description of all algorithm assumptions:

-'Apply closed world assumption in influence resolution'
default: off
name: cw_assumption
description: When evaluating the effects of influences and proportionalities,
this function firstly sets the derivative of all unaffected quantities
to zero. (if these derivatives are unknown). In some cases this may conflict
with later results of the influence resolution, causing a contradiction
(via an inequality for instance). In this case the corresponding state is
not generated.

-'Apply closed world assumption in second order influence resolution'
default: off
name: cw_assumption_second_order (idem for third order)
description: When evaluating the second order effects of influences and proportionalities,
this function firstly sets the (second order) derivative of all unaffected quantities
to zero. (if these (second order) derivatives are unknown).

-'Derive landmark relations'
default: off
name: use_landmarks
description: In the course of a simulation new inequality relations between
landmark values may become derivable. With this function these relations are
added to the state description to prevent simulation branches describing
different possible worlds from interacting.

-'Assume inequality terminations despite unknown derivatives'
default: off
name: full_branching_equality_terminations
description: a binairy equality like greater(q1, q2) will normally terminate
only when it is known that their derivatives are unequal. With this assumption
switched on, GARP will assume unequal derivatives (constrained by relations
that are known) and firing terminations accordingly.

-'Assume value terminations despite unknown derivatives'
default: off
name: full_branching_value_terminations
description: a quantity will only move if it has a known derivative min or plus
With this assumption switched on, GARP will assume unequal derivatives
(constrained by relations that are known) and firing terminations accordingly.

-'Generate terminations for >= & =<'
default: off
name: terminate_weak_relations
description: Normally these weak relations will not terminate, with this
algorithm assumption they will: >= to > in case of the left side rising relative
to the right side or to = and < in case of leftdown.

-'Use extra termination rules'
default: off
name: extra_termination_interpreter
description: When using the garp 2.0 transition procedure no termination rules
are used. (Instead an internal set is used). Use this function to use domain
specific termination rules on the side. For instance rules that remove system
elements (water evaporating?). Be sure that no 'old' termination rules are
in the rules file.

-'Use correspondences in ordering'
default: on
name: order_using_correspondences
description: Correspondences (for values) are a good information source for
ordering terminations in the transition process. In general correspondences are
valid throughout a simulation. In a model where the correspondences change from
state to state, turn this function off.

-'Remove terminations to unequal for full corresponding quantities'
default: off
name: remove_corresponding_equality
description: Turn this function on to remove terminations from equal to unequal
from the transitions for quantities that have a full correspondence.

-'Use constants in ordering'
default: on
name: order_using_equalities
description: This function uses relations labeled as constant AND relations
involving addition/subtraction (these are assumed constant) to order
terminations in the transition process.

-'Apply epsilon ordering'
default: on
name: epsilon_ordering
description: changes from a point and from equality will happen instantly and
therefore before all other changes which take at least some small epsilon of
time. In case of an instant change, non instant changes are removed

-'Apply epsilon merging of immediate terminations'
default: on
name: epsilon_merging
description: changes from a point and from equality will happen instantly and
therefore they should happen all at once. This function groups all immediate
terminations as much as possible. (mutual exclusive terminations cannot be
combined, e.g. to interval above / to interval below for the same quantity, in
a situation where value terminations are assumed despite unknown derivative.)

-'Specify and Match instead of Subsumption'
default: on
name: no_subsumption_specify_all
description: In GARP 1.7.2 a transition either led to existing states
(subsumption) or to new states. This sometimes caused new successor states
not to be found, because an existing state was already found. In GARP 2.0 all
transition scenarios are fully specified and the resulting states are either
matched to existing states or saved as new.

-'Use only old rule based transition procedure'
default: off
name: use_old_transition_rules
description: This feature turns on the rule based termination, order and close
procedures used in GARP 1.7. The rules file should be present. The Specify and
Match distinction still is valid.

-'No quantity space derivative constraints extreme values'
default: on
name: free_maxmin_derivative
description: In some models it can be useful to allow the derivative of a
quantity to keep increasing or decreasing in the highest or lowest point of the
quantity space respectively. After changing this switch, start with a new model
to reset quantity spaces.

-'No quantity space derivative constraints zero as extreme value'
default: off
name: free_zero_derivative
description: In some models it can be useful to allow the derivative of a
quantity to keep increasing or decreasing in the highest or lowest point of the
quantity space respectively even if this point is ZERO. Whereas normally it
would be restricted in this case. After changing this switch, start with a new
model to reset quantity spaces.

-'Remove inactive quantities'
default: off
name: remove_inactive_quantities
description: This function removes any quantities that are not mentioned
anymore in the set of active model fragments. Typically this may be a
quantity associated with a process, where the process stops and disappears.

-'Apply continuity on derivative inequalities'
default: off
name: apply_continuity_d_inequalities
description: The continuity regime in garp releases derivatives over state
transitions under constraints to ensure continuous change.

-'Allow assumptions on derivatives in reclassifying MFs'
default: off
name: allow_d_assumptions_in_reclassifying_mfs
description: When applying a transition, Model Fragments are reconsidered.
Assumptions that are not contradictory at this point are kept. Assumptions
about derivatives should not be made at this point however, for these cannot
be contradicted because derivatives are set later on in the influence
resolution procedure. Thus causing Model Fragments to be kept over a transition
unjustified. Turn this switch on to allow GARP to make assumptions on
derivatives.

-'No application of analyse zero equality technique'
default: off
name: no_analyse_zero
description: Turn this zero analysis off and slow down the inequality reasoning
procedure of garp 2.0. No positive effects known ;-)
